+++

abstract = "When functional programming is used in studies of the Rainfall problem in CS1, most students seem to perform fairly well. A handful of students, however, still struggle, though with different surface-level errors than those reported for students programming imperatively. Prior research suggests that novice programmers tackle problems by refining a high-level program schema that they have seen for a similar problem. Functional programming students, however, have often seen multiple schemas that would apply to Rainfall. How do novices navigate these choices? This paper presents results from a talk-aloud study in which novice functional programmers worked on Rainfall. We describe the criteria that drove students to select, and sometimes switch, their high-level program schema, as well as points where students realized that their chosen schema was not working. Our main contribution lies in our observations of how novice programmers approach a multi-task planning problem in the face of multiple viable schemas."

abstract_short = "We present results from a think-aloud study in which novice functional programmers worked on the Rainfall problem. We describe criteria that drove students to select and switch their high-level program schema when working on a multi-task planning problem."

authors = ["K Fisler", "F Castro"]

date = "2017-08-18"

image = ""

image_preview = ""

math = true

publication_types = ["1"]

publication = "In *Conference on International Computing Education Research (ICER '17)*, ACM."

publication_short = ""

selected = true

title = "Sometimes, Rainfall Accumulates: Talk-Alouds with Novice Functional Programmers"

url_code = "https://github.com/franciscastro/icer-2017"

url_dataset = ""

url_pdf = "pdf/prepub-icer-2017.pdf"

# Example of pointing this publication to a project page: project/deep-learning/
url_project = ""

url_slides = "https://github.com/franciscastro/icer-2017/blob/master/icer2017-paper-slides.pdf"

url_video = ""

# Example of a custom URL for this publication (uncomment below)
[[url_custom]]
name = "ACM Digital Library"
url = "https://doi.org/10.1145/3105726.3106183"

# Add more text about this publication below.
# More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.

+++

K. Fisler and F.E.V.G. Castro. Sometimes, Rainfall Accumulates: Talk-Alouds with Novice Functional Programmers. International Computing Education Research (Tacoma, Washington, USA. 18-20 August 2017)

[ICER 2017](https://icer.hosting.acm.org/icer-2017/)
