+++

abstract = "This paper explores how to assess students’ skills in program design and how those skills evolve across an entire CS1 course. We gathered various data from students, including programming samples and transcripts from interview and think-aloud sessions. As we coded the data, a progression resembling a SOLO taxonomy appeared to emerge bottom-up. As we refined this with top-down perspective from our curricular goals, we ended up with a novel multi-faceted SOLO taxonomy to track students’ progress. We also identified data that don’t fit a SOLO progression, yet reflect relevant traits and habits about design. In applying our framework, we learned several lessons about defining SOLO taxonomies and study protocols that leverage them. The major contributions of this work are (1) a taxonomy with separate but inter-related progressions for different design skills (that is applied to an entire course rather than a single assignment), along with (2) various methodological lessons about applying and designing assessments around SOLO taxonomies in this context."

abstract_short = "We present results from the first phase of a semi-longitudinal study on programmer design skills. We conducted a user study of novice programmers and developed a novel multi-faceted SOLO taxonomy of program design skills. The framework was based on interview and think-aloud protocols and programming data, which we used to track the evolution of programming skills across a program design course."

authors = ["F Castro", "K Fisler"]

date = "2017-11-16"

image = ""

image_preview = ""

math = true

publication_types = ["1"]

publication = "In *17th Koli Calling International Conference on Computing Education Research (Koli Calling 2017)*, ACM."

publication_short = ""

selected = true

title = "Designing a Multi-Faceted SOLO Taxonomy to Track Program Design Skills Through an Entire Course"

url_code = "https://github.com/franciscastro/koli-2017"

url_dataset = ""

url_pdf = ""

# Example of pointing this publication to a project page: project/deep-learning/
url_project = ""

url_slides = ""

url_video = ""

# Example of a custom URL for this publication (uncomment below)
# [[url_custom]]
# name = "ICER 2015"
# url = "http://web.cs.wpi.edu/~fgcastro/2015/icer2015/icer2015-poster.pdf"

# Add more text about this publication below.
# More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.

+++

F.E.V.G. Castro and K. Fisler. Designing a Multi-Faceted SOLO Taxonomy to Track Program Design Skills Through an Entire Course. Koli Calling International Conference on Computing Education Research (Koli, Finland. 16-19 November 2017)

[Koli Calling 2017](http://www.kolicalling.fi/index.php/submissions/cfp-2017)
