+++
abstract = "In January 2013, the eHealth TABLET (Technology Assisted Boards for Local government unit Efficiency and Transparency) project began with a two-fold objective of: 1) creating a tablet based system that will integrate existing health information systems to address the national objective of a unified health information management system by 2015 and 2) to create a transparency layer at the local government units such that communication lines between municipal health officers and the mayor are monitored. Bottom up approach was used to ensure that all features requested by multi-stakeholders are included in the design of the system. The end product was a mobile - web based system with the mobile application having three main components: the electronic medical record (EMR) application which comprises of the patient record and diagnosis module, the requests/approval application, and the dashboard application for data visualization. Responding to the needs of intended users, the web based application provides the following features: web auxiliary entry, aggregated disease report application and usage monitoring. Regular usage monitoring increased usage over time. For ICT development projects in public health, iterative involvement of multi-stakeholders is necessary to ensure higher acceptance and adoption. From a design perspective, technologies should be designed to be interoperable such that interfacing with existing systems will be seamless."

abstract_short = "We developed and deployed the eHealth TABLET, a mobile electronic medical record (EMR) application with a two-fold objective of: 1) integrating existing health information systems for a unified health information management system and 2) creating a transparency layer at the local government units to monitor communication lines between health officers and the government officers."

authors = ["M Estuar", "D Batangan", "A Coronel", "F Castro", "A Amarra", "R Caliso", "J Vergara"]

date = "2014-07-14"

image = ""

image_preview = ""

math = true

publication_types = ["1"]

publication = "In *15th IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management (MDM)*, IEEE."

publication_short = ""

selected = true

title = "eHealth TABLET: A Developing Country Perspective in Managing the Development and Deployment of a Mobile - Cloud Electronic Medical Record for Local Government Units"

url_code = ""

url_dataset = ""

url_pdf = "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6916935"

# Example of pointing this publication to a project page: project/deep-learning/
url_project = ""

url_slides = ""

url_video = ""

# Example of a custom URL for this publication (uncomment below)
# [[url_custom]]
# name = "WPI GRIE 2016"
# url = "http://web.cs.wpi.edu/~fgcastro/2016/wpi-grie2016/wpi-grie2016.pdf"

# Add more text about this publication below.
# More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.

+++

M.R. Estuar, D. Batangan, A. Coronel, F.E.V. Castro, A.C. Amarra, R.A.C. Caliso, and J.P. Vergara. eHealth TABLET: A Developing Country Perspective in Managing the Development and Deployment of a Mobile – Cloud Electronic Medical Record for Local Government Units. 15th IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management (Brisbane, Australia. 15-18 July 2014).

[IEEE MDM 2014](http://www.mdmconferences.org/mdm2014/)
