+++
abstract = "The arching phenomenon is an emergent pattern formed by a *c*-sized crowd of intelligent, goal-oriented, autonomous, heterogeneous individuals moving towards a *w*-wide exit along a long *W*-wide corridor, where *W>w*. We collected empirical data from microsimulations to identify the combination effects of *c* and *w* to the time *T* of the onset of and the size *S* of the formation of the arch. The arch takes on the form of the perimeter of a half ellipse halved along the minor axis. We measured the *S* with respect to the lengths of the major *M* and minor *m* axes of the ellipse, respectively. The mathematical description of the formation of this phenomenon will be an important information in the design of walkways to control and easily direct the flow of large crowds, especially during panic egress conditions."

abstract_short = "We collected empirical data from microsimulations to identify the combination effects of crowd size and exit size to the time of the onset of and the arch size of the formation of the arching phenomenon."

authors = ["F Castro", "J Pabico"]

date = "2013-08-01"

image = ""

image_preview = ""

math = true

publication_types = ["1"]

publication = "In *Philippine Computing Journal*, Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 21-29."

publication_short = ""

selected = true

title = "A Study on the Effect of Exit Widths and Crowd Sizes in the Formation of Arch in Clogged Crowds"

url_code = ""

url_dataset = ""

url_pdf = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.08133"

# Example of pointing this publication to a project page: project/deep-learning/
url_project = ""

url_slides = ""

url_video = ""

# Example of a custom URL for this publication (uncomment below)
[[url_custom]]
name = "Preprint"
url = "pdf/prepub-pcj-2013.pdf"

# Add more text about this publication below.
# More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.

+++

F.E.V.G. Castro and J.P. Pabico. A Study on the Effect of Exit Widths and Crowd Sizes in the Formation of Arch in Clogged Crowds. Philippine Computing Journal. Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 21-29. August 2013. 6th Symposium on the Mathematical Aspects of Computer Science (Boracay Island, Aklan, Philippines, December 4-8, 2012).

[PCJ](http://pcj.csp.org.ph/)
