+++
abstract = "We present in this paper the behavior of an artificial agent who is a member of a crowd. The behavior is based on the social comparison theory, as well as the trajectory mapping towards an agent's goal considering the agent's field of vision. The crowd of artificial agents were able to exhibit arching, clogging, and bursty exit rates. We were also able to observe a new phenomenon we called double arching, which happens towards the end of the simulation, and whose onset is exhibited by a \"calm\" density graph within the exit passage. The density graph is usually bursty at this area. Because of these exhibited phenomena, we can use these agents with high confidence to perform microsimulation studies for modeling the behavior of humans and objects in very realistic ways."

abstract_short = "We present the behavior of artificial agents who are members of a crowd and associated behaviors when moving through an exit zone."

authors = ["F Castro", "J Pabico"]

date = "2013-02-01"

image = ""

image_preview = ""

math = true

publication_types = ["1"]

publication = "In *Philippine Information Technology Journal*, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 11-16."

publication_short = ""

selected = true

title = "Microsimulations of Arching, Clogging, and Bursty Exit Phenomena in Crowd Dynamics"

url_code = ""

url_dataset = ""

url_pdf = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.07781"

# Example of pointing this publication to a project page: project/deep-learning/
url_project = ""

url_slides = ""

url_video = ""

# Example of a custom URL for this publication (uncomment below)
[[url_custom]]
name = "arXiv"
url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.07781"

# Add more text about this publication below.
# More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.

+++

F.E.V.G. Castro and J.P. Pabico. Microsimulations of Arching, Clogging, and Bursty Exit Phenomena in Crowd Dynamics. Philippine Information Technology Journal. Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 11-16. February 2013. 10th National Conference on Information Technology Education (Northwestern University, Laoag City, Ilocos Norte, Philippines, October 18-20, 2012). **Best Paper**.

[NCTIE 2012 CFP](http://www.ics.uplb.edu.ph/node/508)
